#summary Supported Platforms of the Toolkit
#labels Featured

=Supported OS Platforms & Widget Frameworks=

  * [#iPhone_OS_3.0 iPhone OS 3.0]
  * [#Google_Gears Google Gears (Android, Windows Mobile)]
  * [#Device_Software_4.1 BlackBerry Device Software 4.1 and greater]
  * [#Nokia_Web_Runtime_Toolkit Nokia Web Runtime Toolkit]
  * [#Bondi_Widgets_1.0 Bondi Widgets v1.0]
  * [#webOS_Application_Platform webOS Application Platform]
  * [#torchMobileIrisBrowser Torch Mobile Iris Browser] 


*_If you think we are missing a platform please leave a comment at the bottom of this page. THANK YOU!_*


==iPhone OS 3.0==
Since the  release of the OS 3.0 [http://developer.apple.com/safari/library/documentation/AppleApplications/Reference/SafariWebContent/GettingGeographicalLocations/GettingGeographicalLocations.html Geographic location classes] are available in javascript. As with native applications the user is asked for permission per session. *Note:* This doesn't work in the simulator that ships with the SDK.

==Google Gears==
Gears is a javascript framework available for Android, Windows Mobile (IE Mobile, Opera Mobile), Mac (Firefox, Safari), Linux and Windows . One of its cores is the [http://code.google.com/apis/gears/api_geolocation.html Geolocation API]. On the mobile phone it asks the user once for permission per site and user, so not every session as in the iPhone OS 3.0. To set the location in the Simulator that ships with the Android SDK please you need to [http://developer.android.com/guide/topics/location/index.html telnet into the SDK and issue a geo statement], much easier then it sounds. It works _most_ of the time, sometimes you need to try multiple telnet sessions to make for android to register the location.

==BlackBerry Device Software 4.1==
Since the release of the Device Software 4.1 (i.e. Bold,8800,8820,...) BlackBerry supports [http://na.blackberry.com/eng/deliverables/8861/blackberry_location_568404_11.jsp javascript access to the GPS location]. Permission is asked once per session. In order to use it on your phone make sure that in javascript location support is enabled (Browser->Options->General Properties). To set the location in the Simulator set the GPS location in the Simulate pull down menu.

==Nokia Web Runtime Toolkit==
The [http://www.forum.nokia.com/Technology_Topics/Web_Technologies/Web_Runtime/ Nokia WRT ] is supported by the framework. Permission is asked once per session. You only need to include geo.js in your main html page. *Note*: The Nokia WRT does not provide a timestamp with the geo location. *Note*: It only works in applications, not in a regular browser session.

==webOS Application Platform==
The [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WebOS webOS] application platform is now supported by the framework. You need to put the geo.js in your application folder and include it in the main index.html file. All [http://dev.w3.org/geo/api/spec-source.html#position-options w3c position opyions] are supported. *Note*: It only works in applications, not in a regular browser session.

==Bondi Widgets 1.0==
The [http://bondi.omtp.org/default.aspx Bondi Widgets framework] which implements the W3C geolocation API is supported.

==Torch Mobile Iris Browser==
The [http://www.irisbrowser.com/ Iris Browser] which implements the W3C geolocation API is supported.